cloud: add roadmap (#10495)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-roadmap.md

---
title: TiDB Cloud Roadmap
summary: Learn about TiDB Cloud's roadmap for the next few months. See the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, learn about the key milestones on the way, and give feedback as the development work goes on.
---

# TiDB Cloud Roadmap

The TiDB Cloud roadmap brings you what's coming in the near future, so you can see the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, learn about the key milestones on the way, and [give feedback](https://www.pingcap.com/contact-us) as the development work goes on.

## Developer experience and enterprise-grade features

| Scenario | Feature | Description | Estimated Time of Delivery |
|---|---|---|---|

> | Developer experience | Provide more sample datasets for import. | Provide sample datasets with larger data volumes for TPC-H, and allow users to dive deeper when trying out TiDB Cloud. | October 2022 |

Author: suggested by @zhoubasten
```suggestion
| Developer experience | Load sample datasets manually. | Support loading sample datasets into a cluster. You can use this data to quickly get started with testing the features of TiDB Cloud. | October 2022 |
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud Roadmap
summary: Learn about TiDB Cloud's roadmap for the next few months. See the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, learn about the key milestones on the way.
---

# TiDB Cloud Roadmap

The TiDB Cloud roadmap brings you what's coming in the near future, so you can see the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, and learn about the key milestones on the way.

> **Note:**
>
> In the course of development, this roadmap is subject to change based on user needs, feedback, and our assessment.

## Developer experience and enterprise-grade features

| Scenario | Feature | Description | Estimated Time of Delivery |
|---|---|---|---|
| Developer experience | Load sample datasets manually. | Support loading sample datasets into a cluster. You can use this data to quickly get started with testing the features of TiDB Cloud. | October 2022 |

> | Enterprise-grade features | Manage multiple organizations. | Support managing multiple organizations. A user can create and join more than one organization. | October 2022 |

Author: 场景：基础体验
Feature:更便捷的产品反馈渠道
描述：用户可以快速的获得使用帮助和反馈产品问题

```suggestion
| UI experience | Provide a convenient feedback channel. | Users can quickly get help with and give feedback on the product. |
| Cloud Provider Marketplace | Improve the user experience from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | Improve the user journey and experience of users who sign up from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. |
| Enterprise-grade features | Manage multiple organizations. | Support managing multiple organizations. A user can create and join more than one organization. | October 2022 |
```

    <td>December 2022</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Data backup and migration

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Scenario</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Estimated Time of Delivery</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Data replication to Kafka via TiCDC</td>
    <td>Reduce TiCDC replication latency in planned offline scenarios.</td>
    <td>When TiKV, TiDB, PD, or TiCDC nodes are offline in a planned maintenance window, the replication latency of TiCDC can be reduced to less than 10 seconds.</td>
    <td>October 2022</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data disaster recovery</td>
    <td>TiCDC provides cross-region disaster recovery on the cloud.</td>
    <td>TiCDC provides disaster recovery that ensures data eventual consistency with lower cost on TiDB Cloud.</td>
    <td>December 2022</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Point-in-time recovery (PITR)</td>
    <td>Support PITR on the cloud.</td>
    <td>Support cluster-level PITR on the cloud.</td>
    <td>October 2022</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Backup and restore</td>

>     <td>Backup and restore service on the cloud based on AWS EBS or GCP Persistent Disk snapshot.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Backup and restore service on the cloud based on AWS EBS or GCP persistent disk snapshots.</td>
```

---

# TiDB Cloud Roadmap

This roadmap brings you what's coming in the near future, so you can see the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, and learn about the key milestones on the way.

> **Note:**
>
> In the course of development, this roadmap is subject to change based on user needs and feedback.

## Developer experience and enterprise-grade features

| Scenario | Feature | Description | Estimated Time of Delivery |
|---|---|---|---|
| Developer experience | Load sample datasets manually. | Support loading sample datasets into a cluster. You can use this data to quickly get started with testing the features of TiDB Cloud. | October 2022 |
| Enterprise-grade features | Manage multiple organizations. | Support managing multiple organizations. A user can create and join more than one organization. | October 2022 |
| UI experience | Add left navigation. | Present the TiDB Cloud console in the structure of organizations, projects, and users to simplify the layout logic and improve user experience. | November 2022 |
| Developer experience | Add SQL Editor. | Write and run SQL queries, and view the results in the TiDB console. | November 2022 |

> | Developer experience | Connect TiDB Cloud account and database account. | TiDB Cloud account can access the database without password to improve user experience. | November 2022 |

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud Roadmap
summary: Learn about TiDB Cloud's roadmap for the next few months. See the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, learn about the key milestones on the way.
---

# TiDB Cloud Roadmap

The TiDB Cloud roadmap brings you what's coming in the near future, so you can see the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, and learn about the key milestones on the way.

> **Note:**
>
> In the course of development, this roadmap is subject to change based on user needs, feedback, and our assessment.

## Developer experience and enterprise-grade features

| Scenario | Feature | Description | Estimated Time of Delivery |
|---|---|---|---|
| Developer experience | Load sample datasets manually. | Support loading sample datasets into a cluster. You can use this data to quickly get started with testing the features of TiDB Cloud. | October 2022 |

> | UI experience | Provide a convenient feedback channel. | Users can quickly get help with and give feedback on the product. | October 2022 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| UI experience | Provide a more convenient feedback channel. | Users can quickly get help with and give feedback on the product. | October 2022 |
```

> | UI experience | Provide a convenient feedback channel. | Users can quickly get help with and give feedback on the product. |
> | Cloud Provider Marketplace | Improve the user experience from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | Improve the user journey and experience of users who sign up from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. |

Author: ```suggestion
| UI experience | Provide a convenient feedback channel. | Users can quickly get help with and give feedback on the product. | October 2022 |
| Cloud Provider Marketplace | Improve the user experience from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | Improve the user journey and experience of users who sign up from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | October 2022 |
```

> | Cloud Provider Marketplace | Improve the user experience from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | Improve the user journey and experience of users who sign up from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | October 2022 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cloud provider marketplace | Improve the user experience from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | Improve the user journey and experience of users who sign up from AWS Marketplace and GCP Marketplace. | October 2022 |
```

| Developer experience | Add SQL Editor. | Write and run SQL queries, and view the results in the TiDB console. | November 2022 |
| Developer experience | Connect TiDB Cloud account and database account. | TiDB Cloud account can access the database without password to improve user experience. | November 2022 |
| Enterprise-grade features | Support hierarchical user roles and permissions. | Support role-based access control (RBAC) for the TiDB Cloud console. You can manage user permissions in a fine-grained manner, such as by cluster, billing, and member. | December 2022 |

> | Developer experience | Provide Data API.  | Provide API for data read and write. A user can access the database via HTTP requests.  | December 2022 |

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud Roadmap
summary: Learn about TiDB Cloud's roadmap for the next few months. See the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, learn about the key milestones on the way, and give feedback as the development work goes on.
---

# TiDB Cloud Roadmap

> The TiDB Cloud roadmap brings you what's coming in the near future, so you can see the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, learn about the key milestones on the way, and [give feedback](https://www.pingcap.com/contact-us) as the development work goes on.

Author: ```suggestion
This roadmap brings you what's coming in the near future, so you can see the new features or improvements in advance, follow the progress, learn about the key milestones on the way, and give feedback as the development work goes on.

In the course of development, this roadmap is subject to change based on user needs and feedback. If you have a feature request or want to prioritize a feature, please [contact us](https://www.pingcap.com/contact-us).
```

## Developer experience and enterprise-grade features

| Scenario | Feature | Description | Estimated Time of Delivery |
|---|---|---|---|
| Developer experience | Provide more sample datasets for import. | Provide sample datasets with larger data volumes for TPC-H, and allow users to dive deeper when trying out TiDB Cloud. | October 2022 |
| Enterprise-grade features | Manage multiple organizations. | Support managing multiple organizations. A user can create and join more than one organization. | October 2022 |
| UI experience | Add left navigation. | Present the TiDB Cloud console in the structure of organizations, projects, and users to simplify the layout logic and improve user experience. | November 2022 |
| Developer experience | Add SQL Editor. | Write and run SQL queries, and view the results in the TiDB console. | November 2022 |

> | Developer experience | Connect TiDB Cloud account and database account. | Import data via TiDB Cloud console with no password required. Use SQL Editor to improve user experience. | November 2022 |

Author: ```suggestion
| Developer experience | Connect TiDB Cloud account and database account. | TiDB Cloud account can access the database without password to improve user experience. | November 2022 |
```

Author: suggested by @zhoubasten

| Enterprise-grade features | Support hierarchical user roles and permissions. | Support role-based access control (RBAC) for the TiDB Cloud console. You can manage user permissions in a fine-grained manner, such as by cluster, billing, and member. | December 2022 |

> | Developer experience | Provide Data AP.  | Provide API for data read and write. A user can access the database via HTTP requests.  | December 2022 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Developer experience | Provide Data API.  | Provide API for data read and write. A user can access the database via HTTP requests.  | December 2022 |
```

## Optimize TiDB kernel

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Scenario</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Estimated Time of Delivery</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Support JSON</td>
    <td>Support JSON function.</td>
    <td>In business scenarios that require flexible schema definitions (such as SaaS, Web3, and gaming), the application can use JSON to store information for ODS, transaction indicators, commodities, game characters, and props.</td>
    <td>September 2022</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul><li>Support expression indexes.</li><li>Support generated columns.</li></ul></td>
    <td>Provides query acceleration for specific field indexes in JSON scenarios.</td>
    <td>October 2022 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Flashback</td>
    <td>Support cluster-level flashback.</td>

>     <td>In game rollback scenarios, the flashback can be used to achieve fast rollback of the current cluster. This solves the common problems in the gaming industry such as version errors and bugs.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>In game rollback scenarios, the flashback can be used to achieve a fast rollback of the current cluster. This solves the common problems in the gaming industry such as version errors and bugs.</td>
```

    <td>November 2022</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash result write back (supports <code>INSERT INTO SELECT)</code></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash result write-back (supports <code>INSERT INTO SELECT</code>)</td>
```
